There are only a few countries in the world that do not have rabies. For some
this is due to isolation and good quarantine measures, for example with island nations such as Groot-
Britain.
Rabies is a particularly unpleasant disease: it causes your brain to swell, affects your behavior,
it makes you paranoid and reeling and is very painful. And then it is also deadly. There is a reason
that it is known in French as 'la rage': the anger. Rabies was very frightening in the 19th century
Britain. Every bite or crab from a stray dog ​​or wild dog - and there were a lot of them
you could kill in a terrible way. It was almost certain that this was not going to happen - there were only
about 1200 deaths in Britain due to rabies throughout the century. The risk was actually
very small - but it was frightening for the British.
So there was what we would now call a war against rabies. Pets had to be muzzled. Wild dogs and roaming
dogs were killed. There was a fight in the press and in public opinion between dog lovers
and dog muzzles. Rabies was a threat that was incredibly exaggerated - but the measures
worked. The last known case of rabies song caused by a British animal was in 1922.
And you can be proud of the fact that Britain is now free of rabies. The United Kingdom does have a similar one
virus in a few bats, but if you're not a veterinarian, or Bruce Wayne, the chances are you
bitten is virtually nil. We have completely eradicated rabies. But even today
we still see frightening headlines in tabloid newspapers about new threats about rabies, and how
foreigners could cross the borders and let the virus in.
That is why you still see signs like this in most of the busy ports in Great Britain. It is a reminder that
whatever animal you bring to Great Britain on a commercial aircraft or boat is illegal. Not because
there is a significant threat of rabies. Even if an infected dog was smuggled in, the disease would
do not spread far. It would not cause an epidemic.
But the reason that the sign is there is the same reason why Britain is free of rabies: because it is terrible.
Because rabies is still part of the mindset of ideas, and because
free of rabies, just like being an island state, has become part of our national identity.